.TH GPO "1" "August 2023" "gpodder 3.11.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
gpo \- Text mode interface of gPodder
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gpo
[\fI--verbose|-v|--quiet|-q\fR]
[\fICOMMAND\fR] [\fIparams...\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
gpo is the text mode interface of gPodder. Run it without any arguments to
start the interactive shell (see below). Use "gpo help" to get a list of
supported commands.
.PP
gpo can be used to manage podcasts from the command line without having to
start gPodder. It can also be used to automate tasks such as downloading or
updating feeds.
.PP
The database and files are the same as used by the GUI, \fIgpodder(1)\fR.

.SH INTERACTIVE SHELL MODE
.PP
If you run "gpo" without \fICOMMAND\fR it will enter its interactive shell
mode. From there, you can type commands directly. When readline is available,
this shell supports completion using <Tab>. Podcast feed URLs are also
completed for commands that take the URL of a podcast as argument.
.PP
Some commands (e.g. \fIsearch\fR and \fItoplist\fR) will provide a query in
interactive shell mode (to subscribe to podcasts). These queries will not be
shown when started directly from the command line.

.SH COMMAND PREFIXES
.PP
For all commands, you can use only the first few characters instead of the
full command, as long as the command is unique. If not, gpo will show you all
matching commands and the shortest prefix of each.
.PP
Please note that future additions to the command set could change the shortest
prefix of any given command, so usage of the full command in scripts is
recommended (e.g. use "gpo update" and not "gpo up" in scripts and cronjobs).
The short command prefixes are mostly useful for interactive usage.

.SH EXAMPLES

.PP
.B gpo
.RS 4
Enter interactive shell mode
.RE
.PP
.B gpo update && gpo download
.RS 4
Check for new episodes, then download all new episodes
.RE

.PP
.B gpo search linux outlaws
.RS 4
Search the directory for podcasts named "linux outlaws"
.RE

.PP
.B gpo youtube http://youtube.com/watch?v=oHg5SJYRHA0
.RS 4
Print download URL of a YouTube video to stdout
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
gpodder(1)

.SH BUGS
.PP
Report bugs at \fIhttps://github.com/gpodder/gpodder/issues\fR
